Early one morning,
armed Russian special forces
broke into my home.
They handcuffed me
and searched my place.
They took me
to the FSB office for interrogation.
Two days later, the court sentenced
me to pretrial detention.
I was scared because I didn’t know
how I would be treated in prison.
Threatening that things would get
worse for me, the officer demanded
that I incriminate myself, admit guilt,
and give the names of my fellow believers.
I also really missed my dear wife.
It was so hard without her.
For two months, I didn’t have
any spiritual food or a Bible,
so I decided to make one.
My wife sent me a notebook,
and every day I wrote down verses
that I was able to remember.
After I had written about 500 verses,
I was given a Bible.
Because I was
so spiritually hungry,
I read it through in four months.
During this time,
I wrote letters
to my wife and friends
and shared interesting things
that I learned from my reading.
But the letters I received
from my friends and my dear wife
gave me the feeling
that the brothers and sisters
were so close to me,
as if they were in the cells next to me.
I wasn’t lonely.
I felt as if my friends
were right there with me.
Pretrial detention
isolates a person from society.
But it’s impossible to isolate
someone from Jehovah.
Throughout the day,
I prayed to Jehovah many times,
but I especially waited for bedtime.
When everyone was in bed
and only the night-light was on,
I could talk to Jehovah as much as I wanted.
There were times when I was all alone
in the cell and, of course,
I took advantage of the situation.
I would get down on my knees
and would literally cry
as I prayed to Jehovah.
I decided to write my requests to God
on a sheet of paper and then mark off
the ones that he answered.
I was convinced that Jehovah
was very close to me.
I also quietly sang our songs
throughout the day.
But when I was all alone,
I sang at the top of my voice.
I also tried to give
a witness whenever possible.
We discussed a variety of topics
—everything from tattoos
to “the king of the north.”
All my fears
and anxieties were for nothing.
I was in detention 343 days,
and “not even a hair” fell from my head.
This was the most interesting
year of my life
—an excellent school
to help refine my spiritual qualities.
I have never felt so close to Jehovah.
What a great honor
to uphold God’s sovereignty in this way!